README.md, before:

# Rancher OPS Techlab

## Introduction

In the following guided and hands-on techlab we show the participants how to operate Rancher/Kubernetes Container Platform. The labs cover installation and upgrades of Rancher, troubleshooting and maintenance procedures as well as backup and restore of cluster configuration and resources.

## Contributions

If you find errors, bugs or missing information please help us improve our techlab and have a look at the [Contribution Guide](CONTRIBUTING.md).

## Labs

1. [Rancher Overview & Installation](labs/10_rancher.md)
2. [Rancher managed Kubernetes Cluster](labs/20_cluster.md)
3. [Daily Business](labs/30_dailybusiness.md)
4. [Backup and Restore](labs/40_backuprestore.md)
5. [Monitoring and Logging](labs/50_monitoringlogging.md)
6. [Rancher App Catalog](labs/60_appcatalog.md)

## Additional Docs

* [Rancher 2.x Docs](https://rancher.com/docs/rancher/v2.x/en/)
* [RKE Docs](https://rancher.com/docs/rke/latest/en/)
* [Kubernetes Docs](https://kubernetes.io/docs/home/?path=users&persona=app-developer&level=foundational)
* [Helm Docs](https://docs.helm.sh/)

## License

This techlab is licensed under the [Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike 4.0 International (CC BY-SA 4.0)](LICENSE) license.

Commit message:

Rancher logo and contact info

README.md, after:

# Rancher OPS Techlab

![Rancher Labs](resources/images/rancher-logo-horiz-color.png)

## Introduction

In the following guided and hands-on techlab we show the participants how to operate Rancher/Kubernetes Container Platform. The labs cover installation and upgrades of Rancher, troubleshooting and maintenance procedures as well as backup and restore of cluster configuration and resources.

## Contributions

If you find errors, bugs or missing information please help us improve our techlab and have a look at the [Contribution Guide](CONTRIBUTING.md).

## Labs

1. [Rancher Overview & Installation](labs/10_rancher.md)
2. [Rancher managed Kubernetes Cluster](labs/20_cluster.md)
3. [Daily Business](labs/30_dailybusiness.md)
4. [Backup and Restore](labs/40_backuprestore.md)
5. [Monitoring and Logging](labs/50_monitoringlogging.md)
6. [Rancher App Catalog](labs/60_appcatalog.md)

## Additional Docs

* [Rancher 2.x Docs](https://rancher.com/docs/rancher/v2.x/en/)
* [RKE Docs](https://rancher.com/docs/rke/latest/en/)
* [Kubernetes Docs](https://kubernetes.io/docs/home/?path=users&persona=app-developer&level=foundational)
* [Helm Docs](https://docs.helm.sh/)

## Contact & Training

[Puzzle ITC](https://www.puzzle.ch) does offer this Rancher OPS techlab as a training with an experienced teacher and provisioned infrastructur for the lab environment. Contact Sebastian Plattner <plattner@puzzle.ch> for more details.

## License

This techlab is licensed under the [Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike 4.0 International (CC BY-SA 4.0)](LICENSE) license.
